added initial port crd page (#449)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/git/gitops-using-port-crd.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# GitOps using Port CRDs

> You can use GitOps, [Port's Entity CRDs](../kubernetes/port-crd.md) and [Port's K8s exporter](../kubernetes/kubernetes.md) to export custom entities in to Port.

Reviewer: flip the order between port CRD and K8s exporter

:::note
For fully understanding how to use GitOps with Port's CRDs to map entities, make sure you are familiar with:

- [Ports Kubernetes exporter](../kubernetes/kubernetes.md)
- [Ports Entity CRDs](../kubernetes/port-crd.md)

>   :::

Reviewer: Formatting issue, the entire page is part of the admonition block

## Export entities with GitOps and Kubernetes use cases

- Use your K8s clusters as the source-of-truth for your **microservices**, **packages**, **libraries** and other software catalog assets;

> - Update Port in a "Push Only" method, where no elevated permissions are required for Port to interact with your infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update Port in a "Push Only" method, where no elevated permissions are required for Port to interact with your infrastructure;
```

- Allow developers to keep the catalog up-to-date, by making updates to Kubernetes manifest files in their Git repositories;
- Create a standardized way to document software catalog assets in your organization;
- etc.

## Managing entities defined using CRDs and GitOps

Port's CRDs allow defining and mapping any kind of entity using Kubernetes. You can find an example for doing this in the [Port CRDs - mapping a microservice example](../kubernetes/port-crd.md#example---mapping-a-microservice-using-port-crds).

> Mapping entities can be done using any Continuous Deployment(CD) solution, for example ArgoCD or FluxCD, by deploying the Port custom resources using the CD solution, and exporting them to Port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mapping entities can be done using any Continuous Deployment (CD) solution, for example ArgoCD or FluxCD, by deploying the Port custom resources using the CD solution, and mapping their definition to Port using Port's K8s exporter.
```

Reviewer: Add spacing between the 2 sentences

To achieve this, follow these general steps for any CD solution:

> 1. Navigate to [Port's CRDs document](../kubernetes/port-crd.md#deploying-ports-crds) page to learn how to deploy the CRDs. You can deploy then as part of your CD pipeline by placing the CRD manifests in one of your CD source directory/applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to [Port's CRDs document](../kubernetes/port-crd.md#deploying-ports-crds) page to learn how to deploy the CRDs. You can deploy them as part of your CD pipeline by placing the CRD manifests in one of your CD source directory/applications;
```

2. Define a Kubernetes Port entity manifest using Port's CRD, which contains the data model and data you wish to map to Port, and deploy it to your kubernetes cluster using your CD solution.
3. Update Port's K8s exporter `config.yaml` to map the Port CRD you just created. Deploy the new `config.yaml`.

> The entities should appear in your Port environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entities defined using Port's CRD will appear in your Port environment.
```
